OSDOCS#9762: Applications for GitOps on MicroShift (#73761)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-gitops-adding-apps.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift_running_apps/microshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-gitops-adding-apps_{context}"]
= Creating GitOps applications on {microshift-short}

You can create a custom YAML configuration to deploy and manage applications in your {microshift-short} service. To install the necessary packages to run GitOps applications, follow the documentation in "Installing the GitOps Argo CD manifests from an RPM package".

.Prerequisites 

> * You installed the `microshift-gitops` packages and the Argo CD pods are running.

Reviewer: pods are running in `openshift-gitops` namespace

.Procedure 

. Create a YAML file and add your customized configurations for the application: 
+
.Example YAML for a `cert-manager` application
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer: This one too requires the `default` AppProject

//
// microshift_running_apps/microshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-gitops-adding-apps_{context}"]
= Creating GitOps applications on {microshift-short}

You can create a custom YAML configuration to deploy and manage applications in your {microshift-short} service. To install the necessary packages to run GitOps applications, follow the documentation in "Installing the GitOps Argo CD manifests from an RPM package".

.Prerequisites 

* You installed the `microshift-gitops` packages and the Argo CD pods are running 

.Procedure 

. Create a YAML file and add your customized configurations for the application. 

.. The following example creates a cert-manager application:
+
.Example YAML:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  destination:
    namespace: cert-manager
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  project: default
  source:
    path: cert-manager
    repoURL: https://github.com/anandf/microshift-install
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
    - ServerSideApply=true
----

> .. The following example creates an application for spring-petclinic:

Author: Ooo, I think that might be better. I was trying to figure out a way to do this while having multiple yaml examples.

+
.Example YAML:
[source,yaml]
----
kind: AppProject
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  clusterResourceWhitelist:
  - group: '*'
    kind: '*'
  destinations:
  - namespace: '*'
    server: '*'
  sourceRepos:
  - '*'
---
kind: Application
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: spring-petclinic
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  destination:
    namespace: spring-petclinic
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  project: default
  source:
    directory:
      recurse: true
    path: app
    repoURL: https://github.com/siamaksade/openshift-gitops-getting-started
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
    - ServerSideApply=true
----

. To deploy the applications defined in the YAML file, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml
----

.Verification 

* To verify your application is deployed and synced, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get Applications -A

Reviewer 2: Usually we keep the object/kind type in CLI commands lowercase:
```suggestion
$ oc get applications -A
```
FWIW, I see a similar example of `oc get applications` lowercase here:

https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_gitops/1.12/html-single/argo_cd_applications/index#creating-an-application-by-using-the-oc-tool_deploying-a-spring-boot-application-with-argo-cd

----

> It may take a few minutes for the application to show the `Healthy` status.

Reviewer 2: Per ISG:
```suggestion
It might take a few minutes for the application to show the `Healthy` status.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift_running_apps/microshift-gitops.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-gitops-adding-apps_{context}"]
= Creating GitOps applications on {microshift-short}

You can create a custom YAML configuration to deploy and manage applications in your {microshift-short} service.

.Prerequisites 

> * You installed the GitOps ArgoCD package

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `microshift-gitops` packages is installed and Argo CD pods are running. 
```
I'd add here a link to how to do this prerequisite step that is described here: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/72974/files?short_path=1b72eb8#diff-1b72eb821edc3eac7a2919a4cdabb885dbcb0b179acaccbe8c7966833aefab77

.Procedure 

. Create a YAML file and add your customized configurations for the application. 
+

> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc create -f <filename>.yaml
> ----
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Remove this lines because in the step 1 consist only on creating the yaml file, step 2 will run the `oc` command

metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  destination:
    namespace: cert-manager
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  project: default
  source:
    path: cert-manager
    repoURL: https://github.com/anandf/microshift-install
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
    - ServerSideApply=true
----

.. The following example creates an application for spring-petclinic:
+
.Example YAML:
[source,yaml]
----
kind: AppProject
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  clusterResourceWhitelist:
  - group: '*'
    kind: '*'
  destinations:
  - namespace: '*'
    server: '*'
  sourceRepos:
  - '*'
---
kind: Application
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: spring-petclinic
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  destination:
    namespace: spring-petclinic
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  project: default
  source:
    directory:
      recurse: true
    path: app
    repoURL: https://github.com/siamaksade/openshift-gitops-getting-started
  syncPolicy:
    automated: {}
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
    - ServerSideApply=true
----

> . To apply the changes and deploy the applications, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. To deploy the applications defined in the yaml file, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>.yaml
----

.Verification 

. To verify your application is deployed and synced, run the following command
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get Applications -A

> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
----
You may need to wait a few minutes for the app to be in `Healthy` status.
```

+
.Example output 
[source,terminal]
----
NAMESPACE          NAME               SYNC STATUS   HEALTH STATUS

> openshift-gitops   spring-petclinic   Synced        Healthy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
openshift-gitops   cert-manager       Synced        Healthy
openshift-gitops   spring-petclinic   Synced        Healthy
```
